Proposal Types

h1. Proposal Types
There are four SKA Proposal types (which, if accepted, become Project types) for which prospective users can submit proposals for SKA observing time and/or SRCNet resources. These can be further refined using optional attributes_[link TBD]_.

h2. PI Proposals
Standard Principal Investigator (PI) Proposals are for projects in which the required observations will be completed in a single observing cycle with less than 500 hours of observing time. PI Projects are expected to make up approximately 30-50% of all observing time awarded once we reach standard operations.

There are no restrictions on the Member Country affiliation of the PI or Co-Investigators (Co-I), but on average, time will be allocated in accordance with Member Shares with only a small amount of Open Time (for those from non-Member Countries) – see _[link TBD]_ for more information on Time Allocation and Member Share accounting.

Calls for PI Proposals are anticipated once per year (= cycle). The first Call for Proposals is anticipated to be released XYZ. _[something about the proposal requirements?]_

h2. Key Science Project Proposals
Key Science Projects (KSP) are the most ambitious SKA projects, designed to enable transformational and exciting science, and their proposals must reflect and demonstrate that nature. They will typically require significantly more observing time than PI Projects (more than 500 hours) and will be carried out over more than one observing cycle. KSPs are expected to make up about 50-70% of all observing time awarded once we reach standard operations.

KSPs will require a Leadership Team in place of a Principle Investigator; Leadership Teams are limited to 10 people and must be from Member Country institutions. Co-Investigators are permitted to be from non-Member institutions, but the number of non-members per KSP may be limited to a specific number. KSPs will be subject to regular review by an expert panel to ensure that they are on-track to achieve their science goals; in the event that a KSP is deemed unlikely to achieve those science goals, the Director-General reserves the right to terminate or reduce its scope.

Calls for Proposals open to KSPs are anticipated every three years with a maximum duration per KSP of five observing cycles. The first call for KSPs is expected to be released 6 months ahead of Cycle 1 with the first KSP observations expected to begin in Cycle 3.

 KSP Proposals are subject to the same review and evaluation process as PI Projects, with an additional assessment against KSP requirements & technical/resourcing feasibility input from SKAO & SRCNet.

It should be noted that KSPs are not Science Working Groups and no time has been allotted or guaranteed.

h2. Director-General’s Discretionary Time Proposals
Director’s Discretionary Time (DDT) is time allocated by the Director-General outside of the standard allocation process. DDT is reserved for time sensitive proposals that could not have been submitted during a standard Call for Proposals. Examples include .

There are no restrictions on the Member Country affiliation of the PI or Co-Investigators (Co-I), but on average, time will be allocated in accordance with Member Shares with only a small amount of Open Time (for those from non-Member Countries) – see _[link TBD]_ for more information on Time Allocation and Member Share accounting.

_[something about the proposal requirements and review process?]_

h2. Archival Project Proposals
Archival Projects are those projects that will only use publicly available data, stored in the science archive within the SRC Network, but that also require the use of compute resources in the SRC Network. If the SRCNet resources required are above a certain (TBD) threshold, then an archive proposal will need to be written.

There are no restrictions on the Member Country affiliation of the PI or Co-Investigators (Co-I), but on average, SRCNet resources will be allocated in accordance with Member Shares with only a small amount of Open resources (for those from non-Member Countries) – see _[link TBD]_ for more information on Member Share accounting.

Something about when archival projects can be proposed for – will it be normal call for proposals or will there be separate calls and then something about the proposal requirements

Scratchpad