h1. Observatory Data Products (ODPs)
The SKA Observatory is responsible for the generation of Observatory Data Products, providing the workflows, software, conducting quality assessment (QA), reproducibility and that these product types are appropriately stored and made available to users (i.e. archived). There are two types of ODPs:

* Observation-Level Data Products (OLDPs)

These are calibrated data products generated by SKAO pipelines, based on data obtained from a single execution of a scheduling block (SB). These will be produced by the Science Data Processor (SDP).

* Project-Level Data Products (PLDPs)

These are calibrated data products generated by combining several, related, observation-level data products (e.g. to produce a mosaic or for a long integration), delivering the project requirements as outlined in the proposal. The production of PLDPs will likely employ the use of SRCNet resources but remain the responsibility of SKAO.

Software pipelines to generate both OLDPs and PLDPs will be specified during the proposal stage and will not require any interaction or involvement from users. However, users will be able to define workflow parameters in their project SBs which contain definitions of “processing blocks”, including technical details such as required spatial and spectral resolutions as well as continuum image bandwidth intervals. These will be set in advance of the observations being scheduled using the Observation Design Tool.

A processing block is an atomic unit of data processing for the purposes of the SDP’s internal scheduler. Each processing block will reference a processing workflow and each SB will indicate one or more processing blocks to be used (specifying, e.g., ingest, self-calibration, Data Product preparation).

In the case of large projects, it is acknowledged that it may be necessary to allow PIs to check the output of the selected SDP pipeline on some test data (with a feedback loop to adjust SDP pipeline parameters before going “full steam ahead”), or to provide multiple data products from the SDP (e.g. a set of different imaging parameters) whilst the visibility data are still available to establish the best parameters for future processing.

OLDPs will be accessible to users after they are delivered to the SRCNet from the SDP. PLDPs, if applicable to a project, can only be generated (by the SKAO likely using SRCNet resources) when all necessary OLDPs have been completed.

Once all planned SDP pipelines needing a particular set of raw data have been completed and their ODPs delivered to the SRCNet, the raw data will be deleted to free space in the SDP’s buffer (along with any intermediate data products). Copies of all ODPs will be retained in a long term preservation system at SDP sites. The LTP will be a high-latency, last-resport data storage system, ensuring data preservation in case SRCNet copies are lost, but will not be an actively managed storage element within the SRCNet.

|| SDP Data Product Type || Summary ||
| Calibrated visibilities | Calibrated visibility data with time and frequency averaging. In exceptional cases, raw visibilities could be provided (null calibration, zero averaging) but the justification for these would need to be extraordinary and would require a detailed plan for calibration and the generation of data products. |
| uv grids | Calibrated visibilities gridded at a configurable spatial and frequency resolution; accumulated weights for each uv cell in each grid (without additional weighting applied). |
| Image cubes | Cleaned & restored continuum images; 
spectral line cubes with/without continuum subtraction; 
residual images; 
clean component images; 
representative point spread function cut-outs. |
| Autocorrelation data | Auto-correlation data from single-dish observations. |
| Wide area scanning and drift scanning | Linear mosaics of continuum and spectral-line data, including sensitivity cubes to be used when constructing final mosaic; 
larger mosaics combining observations from different epochs. 
Will likely include both cross- and auto-correlation data. |
| Fast imaging |  |
| Imaging transient source catalogue | Time ordered catalogue of candidate transient objects, generated from detection alerts from real-time Fast Imaging pipeline |
| Science alerts catalogue | Catalogue of (Virtual Observatory Alliance (IVOA) formatted science alerts, produced and communicated by the SDP. This catalogue provides a searchable and retrievable record of past alerts. |
| Pulsar timing solutions | For each detected Pulsar: 
original and time-, frequency-, or polarisation-averaged folded pulsar profiles; 
time of arrival; 
residuals from best-fit model; 
updated timing models. |
| Detected filterbank | Formerly known as “dynamic spectrum”. High time- and frequency-resolution, full Stokes polarisation filterbank data, with configurable frequency and time resolutions, re-quantised to efficient bit width. Not restricted to pulsars. |
| Flowthrough archives | Archive of compressed portions of input data. Raw dual-polarisation beamformed voltages will be re-sampled to a configurable bit depth and a portion of the frequency band selected for archiving. |
| Sieved pulsar and transient candidates | Pulsar acceleration search mode: a list containing period, acceleration, signal-to-noise and dispersion measure of each of the detected candidates; and the optimised, folded and de-dispersed data cubes.
Single pulse search: a list containing time of occurrence, signal-to-noise, dispersion measure and pulse width; and full polarisation filterbank data covering the pulse. Discovery of transients will generate an alert. |
| Transient buffer data | Raw, dual-polarisation voltage data passed through from the CSP when the transient buffer is triggered. |
| VLBI | VLBI voltage beams to be correlated at an external VLBI correlator in VDIF format; associated metadata. |
| Ancillary Data Products | Local sky model catalogue (subset of the Global Sky Model containing the sources relevant to the data being processed)
QA and processing reports
Gain tables 
Subset of Telescope Model 
Telescope State
Processing block configuration
ObsCore Data Model elements |

All ODPs will have an associated QA report from the entire SKA processing chain. These QA reports will chiefly contain information generated by the SDP (on astrometry, photometry, radiometry, polarimetry and spectrometry), but will also contain other relevant information from the CSP (specifically in the PSS and PST) and the SKA-Low Monitoring, Control and Calibration System.

h1. Advanced Data Products (ADPs)
ADPs are user-generated products, created through the detailed and rigorous analysis and modelling of Observatory Data Products (either at the observation or project level) using SRCNet resources. The generation of ADPs will usually require some level of interactive visualisation and examination of data, and may include comparisons to data from other SKA observations or other facilities. Science users are responsible for the generation of ADPs.

ADPs that will appear in publications or that will be made public will be added to the SKA science archive and made available to all users (while respecting the appropriate proprietary access periods). Examples of ADPs that could be generated by users include (but are not limited to):

* Spectral index maps
* Simulations
* Power spectra
* Stacked images
* Moment maps
* PV diagrams
* Electron density models based on DM
* Magnetic field models
* Source catalogues
* RM synth products